README.md, before:

<picture><img src="./public/images/logo.png" width="300" alt="PokéRogue"></picture>

PokéRogue is a browser based Pokémon fangame heavily inspired by the roguelite genre. Battle endlessly while gathering stacking items, exploring many different biomes, fighting trainers, bosses, and more!

# Contributing
## 🛠️ Development
If you have the motivation and experience with Typescript/Javascript (or are willing to learn) please feel free to fork the repository and make pull requests with contributions. If you don't know what to work on but want to help, reference the below **To-Do** section or the **#feature-vote** channel in the discord.

### 💻 Environment Setup
#### Prerequisites
- node: 20.13.1
- npm: [how to install](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)

#### Running Locally
1. Clone the repo and in the root directory run `npm install`
    - *if you run into any errors, reach out in the **#dev-corner** channel in discord*
2. Run `npm run start:dev` to locally run the project in `localhost:8000`

#### Linting
We're using ESLint as our common linter and formatter. It will run automatically during the pre-commit hook but if you would like to manually run it, use the `npm run eslint` script.

### ❔ FAQ

**How do I test a new _______?**
- In the `src/overrides.ts` file there are overrides for most values you'll need to change for testing


## 🪧 To Do
Check out [Github Issues](https://github.com/pagefaultgames/pokerogue/issues) to see how can you help us!

# 📝 Credits
> If this project contains assets you have produced and you do not see your name here, **please** reach out.

### 🎵 BGM
  - Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky
    - Arata Iiyoshi
    - Hideki Sakamoto
    - Keisuke Ito
    - Ken-ichi Saito
    - Yoshihiro Maeda
  - Pokémon Black/White
    - Go Ichinose
    - Hitomi Sato
    - Shota Kageyama
  - Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX
    - Keisuke Ito
    - Arata Iiyoshi
    - Atsuhiro Ishizuna
  - Pokémon HeartGold/SoulSilver
  - Pokémon Black/White 2
  - Pokémon X/Y
  - Pokémon Omega Ruby/Alpha Sapphire
  - Pokémon Sun/Moon
  - Pokémon Ultra Sun/Ultra Moon
  - Pokémon Sword/Shield
  - Pokémon Legends: Arceus
  - Pokémon Scarlet/Violet
  - Firel (Custom Ice Cave, Laboratory, Metropolis, Plains, Power Plant, Seabed, Space, and Volcano biome music)
  - Lmz (Custom Ancient Ruins, Jungle, and Lake biome music)
  - Andr06 (Custom Slum and Sea biome music)

### 🎵 Sound Effects
  - Pokémon Emerald
  - Pokémon Black/White

### 🎨 Backgrounds
  - Squip (Paid Commissions)
  - Contributions by Someonealive-QN

### 🎨 UI
  - GAMEFREAK
  - LJ Birdman

### 🎨 Pagefault Games Intro
  - Spectremint

### 🎨 Game Logo
  - Gonstar (Paid Commission)

### 🎨 Trainer Sprites
  - GAMEFREAK (Pokémon Black/White 2, Pokémon Diamond/Pearl)
  - kyledove
  - Brumirage
  - pkmn_realidea (Paid Commissions)
  - IceJkai 

### 🎨 Trainer Portraits
  - pkmn_realidea (Paid Commissions)

### 🎨 Pokemon Sprites and Animation
  - GAMEFREAK (Pokémon Black/White 2)
  - Smogon Sprite Project (Various Artists)
  - Skyflyer
  - Nolo33
  - Ebaru
  - EricLostie
  - KingOfThe-X-Roads
  - kiriaura
  - Caruban
  - Sopita_Yorita
  - Azrita
  - AshnixsLaw
  - Hellfire0raptor
  - RetroNC
  - Franark122k
  - OldSoulja
  - PKMarioG
  - ItsYugen
  - lucasomi
  - Pkm Sinfonia
  - Poki Papillon
  - Fleimer_
  - bizcoeindoloro
  - mangalos810
  - Involuntary-Twitch
  - selstar
  - koda_want_to_sleep

### 🎨 Move Animations
  - Pokémon Reborn

Commit message:

[Refactor] External locales (#4529)
* Removed local translation files

added translations submodule

[Enhancement] Add post-merge command to update submodules in lefthook configuration

[Enhancement] Add postinstall script to install lefthook after package installation

[Enhancement] Update postinstall script to run post-merge command after lefthook installation

* Add subproject commit for locales directory

* Remove translation team assignments from CODEOWNERS

* Add recursive submodule checkout to workflow files and update README for translations

* fix: run without locales present (#4539)

some code was hard-wired with  locales having to be present. This is no longer the case now

---------

Co-authored-by: flx-sta <50131232+flx-sta@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

<picture><img src="./public/images/logo.png" width="300" alt="PokéRogue"></picture>

PokéRogue is a browser based Pokémon fangame heavily inspired by the roguelite genre. Battle endlessly while gathering stacking items, exploring many different biomes, fighting trainers, bosses, and more!

# Contributing
## 🛠️ Development
If you have the motivation and experience with Typescript/Javascript (or are willing to learn) please feel free to fork the repository and make pull requests with contributions. If you don't know what to work on but want to help, reference the below **To-Do** section or the **#feature-vote** channel in the discord.

### 💻 Environment Setup
#### Prerequisites
- node: 20.13.1
- npm: [how to install](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)

#### Running Locally
1. Clone the repo and in the root directory run `npm install`
    - *if you run into any errors, reach out in the **#dev-corner** channel in discord*
2. Run `npm run start:dev` to locally run the project in `localhost:8000`

#### Linting
We're using ESLint as our common linter and formatter. It will run automatically during the pre-commit hook but if you would like to manually run it, use the `npm run eslint` script.

### ❔ FAQ

**How do I test a new _______?**
- In the `src/overrides.ts` file there are overrides for most values you'll need to change for testing

**How do I retrieve the translations?**
- The translations were moved to the [dedicated translation repository](https://github.com/pagefaultgames/pokerogue-locales) and are now applied as a submodule in this project.
- The command to retrieve the translations is `git submodule update --init --recursive`. If you still struggle to get it working, please reach out to #dev-corner channel in Discord.

## 🪧 To Do
Check out [Github Issues](https://github.com/pagefaultgames/pokerogue/issues) to see how can you help us!

# 📝 Credits
> If this project contains assets you have produced and you do not see your name here, **please** reach out.

### 🎵 BGM
  - Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky
    - Arata Iiyoshi
    - Hideki Sakamoto
    - Keisuke Ito
    - Ken-ichi Saito
    - Yoshihiro Maeda
  - Pokémon Black/White
    - Go Ichinose
    - Hitomi Sato
    - Shota Kageyama
  - Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX
    - Keisuke Ito
    - Arata Iiyoshi
    - Atsuhiro Ishizuna
  - Pokémon HeartGold/SoulSilver
  - Pokémon Black/White 2
  - Pokémon X/Y
  - Pokémon Omega Ruby/Alpha Sapphire
  - Pokémon Sun/Moon
  - Pokémon Ultra Sun/Ultra Moon
  - Pokémon Sword/Shield
  - Pokémon Legends: Arceus
  - Pokémon Scarlet/Violet
  - Firel (Custom Ice Cave, Laboratory, Metropolis, Plains, Power Plant, Seabed, Space, and Volcano biome music)
  - Lmz (Custom Ancient Ruins, Jungle, and Lake biome music)
  - Andr06 (Custom Slum and Sea biome music)

### 🎵 Sound Effects
  - Pokémon Emerald
  - Pokémon Black/White

### 🎨 Backgrounds
  - Squip (Paid Commissions)
  - Contributions by Someonealive-QN

### 🎨 UI
  - GAMEFREAK
  - LJ Birdman

### 🎨 Pagefault Games Intro
  - Spectremint

### 🎨 Game Logo
  - Gonstar (Paid Commission)

### 🎨 Trainer Sprites
  - GAMEFREAK (Pokémon Black/White 2, Pokémon Diamond/Pearl)
  - kyledove
  - Brumirage
  - pkmn_realidea (Paid Commissions)
  - IceJkai 

### 🎨 Trainer Portraits
  - pkmn_realidea (Paid Commissions)

### 🎨 Pokemon Sprites and Animation
  - GAMEFREAK (Pokémon Black/White 2)
  - Smogon Sprite Project (Various Artists)
  - Skyflyer
  - Nolo33
  - Ebaru
  - EricLostie
  - KingOfThe-X-Roads
  - kiriaura
  - Caruban
  - Sopita_Yorita
  - Azrita
  - AshnixsLaw
  - Hellfire0raptor
  - RetroNC
  - Franark122k
  - OldSoulja
  - PKMarioG
  - ItsYugen
  - lucasomi
  - Pkm Sinfonia
  - Poki Papillon
  - Fleimer_
  - bizcoeindoloro
  - mangalos810
  - Involuntary-Twitch
  - selstar
  - koda_want_to_sleep

### 🎨 Move Animations
  - Pokémon Reborn
